Request a proof review of README.md 1 (#3)
ALTIBASE/telegraf: README.md

# How to build Telegraf embedded the Altibase Input Plugin

> Telegraf input plugins are used to collect metrics from target systems. The Altibase input plugin for Telegraf is provided to gathers metrics from an Altibase database system as one of Telegraf input plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Telegraf utilizes input plugins to collect metrics from target systems. Among these, the **Altibase input plugin for Telegraf** serves the purpose of collecting metrics from an Altibase database system.
```

> This document shows how to compile Telegraf embedded the Altibase input plugin step by step. Then, consult [Altibase Input Plugin][1] to configure and run the successfully compiled binary executable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes the sequential steps to compile Telegraf embedded the Altibase input plugin. Following successful compilation, refer to the [Altibase Input Plugin](https://github.com/jiee-altibase/telegraf/blob/main/altibase/README.md) for configuration and execution instructions.
```

Author: 링크가 잘못되어 있었네요.
https://github.com/ALTIBASE/telegraf/blob/main/altibase/README.md

> This document shows how to compile Telegraf embedded the Altibase input plugin step by step. Then, consult [Altibase Input Plugin][1] to configure and run the successfully compiled binary executable.

Author: ```suggestion
This document describes the sequential steps to compile Telegraf embedded the Altibase input plugin. Following successful compilation, refer to the [Altibase Input Plugin](https://github.com/ALTIBASE/telegraf/blob/main/altibase/README.md) for configuration and execution instructions.
```

> [1]: https://github.com/jiee-altibase/telegraf/blob/main/altibase/README.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### 1. Intall and configure unixODBC

> The Altibase input plugin is connected to an Altibase database system through unixODBC. So, it is mandatory to install a unixODBC and configure environment variables for the Altibase input plugin to reference it.

Reviewer: reference it의 it이 뭔지 잘 모르겠어서... Altibase input plugin이 참조하는 환경 변수를 수정해야 한다라는 뜻이라면, 

Therefore, it is mandatory to install unixODBC and configure environment variables that the Altibase input plugin references.

로 수정해도 좋을 것 같습니다. (So, 는 인포멀한 느낌이라 보통 공식 문서에서 문장 시작 접속사로 잘 안써요,,)

Reviewer 2: Altibase input plugin이 설치된 unixODBC를 참조할 수 있도록 환경 변수를 수정해야 한다는 의미입니다.

Reviewer: 앗 그런 내용이면 Therefore, it is mandatory to install a unixODBC and configure environment variables for the Altibase input plugin to reference unixODBC. 로 So와 마지막 it만 명확하게 해주면 좋을 것 같습니다!

> The Altibase input plugin is connected to an Altibase database system through unixODBC. So, it is mandatory to install a unixODBC and configure environment variables for the Altibase input plugin to reference it.

Author: ```suggestion
The Altibase input plugin is connected to an Altibase database system through unixODBC. Therefore, it is mandatory to install a unixODBC and configure environment variables for the Altibase input plugin to reference unixODBC.
```

> unixodbc-2.3.12 version is recommended for higher compatibility and download it at the official [unixODBC homepage](https://www.unixodbc.org).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to install the unixODBC-2.3.12 version for enhanced compatibility. This version can be downloaded from the [official unixODBC homepage](https://www.unixodbc.org/).
```

> After installing it, set environment variables as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installation, set environment variables as follows:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

코드블럭에 들어갈 내용이 어떤 언어인지 지정하는 suggestion입니다.

LD_LIBRARY_PATH = "$HOME/unixodbc/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH"
CGO_CFLAGS = "-I$HOME/unixodbc/include"
CGO_LDFLAGS = "-L$HOME/unixodbc/lib"
```

> ### 2. Clone the Telegraf repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Clone the Telegraf repository
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clone the Telegraf repository using the following command:
```
간단한 내용이지만 짧게라도 설명이 들어가는 것이 좋아보입니다. 아래의 설명 없는 스텝에도 전부 적용되는 수정 제안 입니다.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

git clone https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf.git telegraf
```

> The last verified version of Telegraf for the Altibase input plugin is v1.30.2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The latest version of Telegraf for the Altibase input plugin is v1.30.2.
```
검증 안된(?) 플러그인이 제공되는 게 아니라면 그냥 최신 버전의 플러그인은 v1.30.2다 정도로 쓰는 게 좋을 것 같습니다.

Author: telegraf 소스 + altibase plugin 소스를 합쳐서 컴파일을 하게 되는데...
telegraf master 소스는 계속 변경되기 때문에... 컴파일 및 실행이 성공하는 것을 보장하는 태그를 명시해 준 것입니다.
이런 의미의 설명이 들어가면 될 거 같습니다.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The latest Telegraf version compatible with the Altibase input plugin is v1.30.2.
```
이렇게 하면 어떨까요? Altibase input plugin과 호환되는 최신 Telegraf 버전은 v1.30.2이다.

Author: 좋네요~ ^^
감사합니다.

> ### 3. Clone the Altibase input plugin repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Clone the Altibase input plugin repository
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clone the Altibase input plugin repository with the following command:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

git clone https://github.com/ALTIBASE/telegraf.git telegraf_altibase
```

> The last verified version of the Altibase input plugin is v1.0.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The latest version of the Altibase input plugin is v1.0.0.
```

### 4. Copy the Altibase input plugin into the Telegraf input plugin directory

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the Altibase input plugin into the Telegraf input plugin directory using the following command:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

cp -r telegraf_altibase/* telegraf/plugins/inputs
```

### 5. Modifiy Makefile

> The Makefile is located in the root directory where you cloned the Telegraf repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Makefile is located in the root directory where the Telegraf repository was cloned.
```

> You must set CGO_ENABLE=1 in the Makefile since the Altibase input plugin requires cgo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify the Makefile by setting CGO_ENABLE=1 since the Altibase input plugin requires cgo.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```makefile
```

...
.PHONY: build
build:
        CGO_ENABLED=1 go build -tags "$(BUILDTAGS)" -ldflags "$(LDFLAGS)" ./cmd/telegraf
...
$(buildbin):
        echo $(GOOS)
        @mkdir -pv $(dir $@)
        CGO_ENABLED=1 go build -o $(dir $@) -tags "$(BUILDTAGS)" -ldflags "$(LDFLAGS)" ./cmd/telegraf
```

> ### 6. Compile Telegraf embedded the Altibase input plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 6. Compile Telegraf embedded the Altibase input plugin

Navigate to the Telegraf directory and execute the following command to compile Telegraf embedded the Altibase input plugin:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

It is recommended to install the unixODBC-2.3.12 version for enhanced compatibility. This version can be downloaded from the [official unixODBC homepage](https://www.unixodbc.org/).

After installation, set environment variables as follows:

```bash
LD_LIBRARY_PATH = "$HOME/unixodbc/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH"
CGO_CFLAGS = "-I$HOME/unixodbc/include"
CGO_LDFLAGS = "-L$HOME/unixodbc/lib"
```

### 2. Clone the Telegraf repository
Clone the Telegraf repository using the following command:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf.git telegraf
```
The latest Telegraf version compatible with the Altibase input plugin is v1.30.2.

### 3. Clone the Altibase input plugin repository
Clone the Altibase input plugin repository with the following command:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ALTIBASE/telegraf.git telegraf_altibase
```
The latest version of the Altibase input plugin is v1.0.0.

### 4. Copy the Altibase input plugin into the Telegraf input plugin directory
Copy the Altibase input plugin into the Telegraf input plugin directory using the following command:
```bash

> cp -r telegraf_altibase/* telegraf/plugins/inputs

Author: ```suggestion
cp telegraf_altibase/all/altibase.go telegraf/plugins/inputs/all
cp -r telegraf_altibase/altibase telegraf/plugins/inputs
```

Author: telegraf 원본소스에 불필요한 파일들이 카피될 수 있어서 위와 같이 수정하겠습니다.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ALTIBASE/telegraf.git telegraf_altibase
```
The latest version of the Altibase input plugin is v1.0.0.

### 4. Copy the Altibase input plugin into the Telegraf input plugin directory
Copy the Altibase input plugin into the Telegraf input plugin directory using the following command:
```bash
cp telegraf_altibase/all/altibase.go telegraf/plugins/inputs/all
cp -r telegraf_altibase/altibase telegraf/plugins/inputs
```

### 5. Modifiy Makefile

The Makefile is located in the root directory where the Telegraf repository was cloned.

Modify the Makefile by setting CGO_ENABLE=1 since the Altibase input plugin requires cgo.

```makefile
...
.PHONY: build
build:
        CGO_ENABLED=1 go build -tags "$(BUILDTAGS)" -ldflags "$(LDFLAGS)" ./cmd/telegraf
...
$(buildbin):
        echo $(GOOS)
        @mkdir -pv $(dir $@)
        CGO_ENABLED=1 go build -o $(dir $@) -tags "$(BUILDTAGS)" -ldflags "$(LDFLAGS)" ./cmd/telegraf
```

### 6. Compile Telegraf embedded the Altibase input plugin

Navigate to the Telegraf directory and execute the following command to compile Telegraf embedded the Altibase input plugin:
```bash
cd telegraf

> make build

Author: ```suggestion
go get github.com/alexbrainman/odbc
make build
```
